you know I never really ever pictured
what a Medal of Honor winner is supposed
to look like I think it's the something
he he definitely looked out for his
friends
Ross went the extra mile for his friends
whether they were high school whether
they were Boy Scouts whether they were
people with McDonald's he definitely
stood by his friends say this didn't
surprise us a bit
I would think of somebody like a John
Wayne character you know in the movies
you know the guy is macho and tough and
there's nothing but of course that's not
anymore anywhere close to what my son
Ross is like
by all accounts Ross Andrew McGinnis was
just an ordinary kid he grew up in a
small town in northern Pennsylvania he
didn't stand out in school as an
academic or an athlete
Ross was he was described as a hundred
percent guy or a zero percent guy he was
kind of all-or-nothing
test it wasn't his gig but boy if if he
could talk about it could debate about
it that was him that was Ross and he
never did any more any less than a lot
of the other kids I've had in class
although yeah I just he he was he was
charming in his in his little way
McGinnis joined the army on June 8th
2005 after graduating high school he
excelled at the hands-on instruction and
rigid discipline everyone took notice of
the new Ross McGinnis when he returned
home to a sleepy town after completing
basic training at Fort Benning Georgia
he hadn't grown any physically but he
had definitely grown in other ways he
was more organized more disciplined is
quieter it wasn't quite the same
party animal and it was when he left I
actually felt relieved Ross had some
problems through high school and I knew
with the army that he would get the
discipline he needed when he came home
on leave and he was around civilians he
felt uneasy because other people seemed
to be sloppy and lazy as prepared the
but it was like in military
so what definitely was different and
thought differently but he good after
he'd been in the going through the
training
private first class McGinnis was
assigned to schweinfurt Germany his
charm and humor endeared him to the
soldiers he served with there were
certain soldiers did stand out and PFC
McGinnis was definitely one of those
soldiers he had a comical personality
made a lot of jokes and it was very
humorous more suitable tune he was
outgoing had great characteristics very
party it was the life of the party
basically he was in a small member of
soldiers a small number soldiers that
could keep up with me on a long run so I
remember many Monday mornings in Germany
where we just got out and run 5 or 6
miles and he was with my group keeping
pace and very impressed by that
McGinnis his unit deployed in Iraq in
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom in
July 2006 and the six months he spent
there he saw more of life than many of
us will ever see in a lifetime he faced
it the same way he always did head-on
and with a smile I don't think he'd want
a lot of big fuss and fanfare about
doing his job and I might I might be
wrong but I really believe that you know
to Ross that's what he wanted to be a
soldier he was just an ordinary person
when it came time he did the right thing
it's just amazing the way things have
worked out he came through when it was
necessary
you